UP Assembly Polls BJP stands with criminals, won’t act against Minister: Akhilesh Yadav
Samajwadi Party president Akhilesh Yadav on Wednesday hit out at the BJP, saying that the ruling party would not act against Union minister Ajay Mishra, whose son has been arrested in connection with the killing of farmers in Lakhimpur Kheri, as it “stands with criminals”. Continuing with the party’s “Vijay Rath Yatra” in Jalaun and Kanpur Dehat districts ahead of the Assembly election in Uttar Pradesh, the former chief minister targeted BJP government over several issues — from inflation and high fuel prices — and said it is a “feku (fraud) and bechu (seller) sarkar”. “This party (BJP) is the one which asked youth to make pakodas for employment. They should be asked how expensive is mustard oil now… The ones who increased the prices of everything are also selling everything else. They are selling airplanes, airports, ships, ports, trains and stations… The way the BJP government is selling things, the government may become a company like the East India Company and may outsource governance too. They are snatching away the rights of the people given to us by Dr B R Ambedkar,” Akhilesh said while addressing people in Jalaun’s Kalpi town. “Most people gathered here are farmers. The BJP government had promised that it will double the income of farmers. Tell me if it has happened… The government could not compensate you for your produce. Today, petrol has crossed Rs 100, and diesel is creeping behind. They have brought three farm laws that will snatch away your farming. It will not increase your produce, but will only take away your farming. You will have to work as labour on your own farming. This is what has been done by BJP,” he asked. #बाइस_में_बाइसकिल pic.twitter.com/TTET87ontF — Akhilesh Yadav (@yadavakhilesh) October 13, 2021 Invoking the October 3 incident in Lakhimpur Kheri, Akhilesh said: “When farmers protested in Lakhimpur Kheri, then the son of country’s Minister for State for Home ran over the protesting farmers leaving farmers dead… The BJP will never act against the (Union) minister because it stands with criminals. If criminals are the happiest anywhere, it is under the BJP government,” he said. “The BJP was prepared to trample the law of the land. If they get more power, they will trample the Constitution too. Farmers are standing to save the country, and they will sweep them away in 2022,” Akhilesh said, pointing to the next year’s Assembly elections. “The people of Bundelkhand gave their full support to the BJP. All (BJP) MLAs and MPs won from here. What did you get,” he asked. कालपी के टक्कर बापा इंटर कॉलेज में महान दल की “सम्मान रैली” में मुख्य अतिथि के रूप में सम्मिलित हुए श्री अखिलेश यादव जी। महान दल के राष्ट्रीय अध्यक्ष श्री केशव देव मौर्य जी ने माननीय राष्ट्रीय अध्यक्ष श्री अखिलेश यादव जी का स्वागत किया।#समाजवादी_विजय_यात्रा pic.twitter.com/P9ulLkQ0y8 — Samajwadi Party (@samajwadiparty) October 13, 2021 “Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath has a liking for two things — the bull and the bulldozer — but the people of Bundelkhand have decided that the steering of the bulldozer, which is in their hands, will be snatched from him in next year’s Assembly election. They will run the bulldozer of votes on the BJP in the coming polls,” he said. Yadav was apparently referring to the stray cattle menace in the state and the government’s drive to raze alleged unauthorised properties. “This Vijay Rath will keep going on till the BJP is swept away from UP,” Akhilesh said, adding, “The Covid pandemic came and people had to run around for treatment. The government couldn’t give medicines, hospital beds of oxygen to the people. Poor people had to run around and manage oxygen on their own.” The SP chief thanked ally Mahan Dal leaders and workers and those who joined the SP from Congress and BSP. 📣 The Indian Express is now on Telegram. Click here to join our channel (@indianexpress) and stay updated with the latest headlines For all the latest Lucknow News, download Indian Express App. 