Lakhimpur Kheri Violence Live Updates: SIT takes Ashish Mishra, 3 others to recreate sequence of events
Lakhimpur Kheri Violence: The SIT probing the Lakhimpur Kheri violence on Thursday took Union Minister Ajay Mishra’s son Ashish Mishra and three others arrested in the case to recreate the sequence of events leading to the incident in Uttar Pradesh’s Tikonia village. Amid tight security, the three accused were taken to the site of the incident on the Tikonia-Banbirpur road, around 60 km from district headquarters Lakhimpur city, police said. Meanwhile, a local court in Lakhimpur Kheri on Wednesday denied bail to Ashish Mishra, the main accused in the murder of four farmers and a journalist who were allegedly run over by a convoy of SUVs, including a Thar jeep owned by his father and Union minister Ajay Mishra. The Special Investigation Team (SIT) of UP Police, meanwhile, arrested two more persons — 38-year-old Ankit Das and 37-year-old Lateef alias Kala — in connection with the incident, taking the total number of arrests in the case to six. Despite his arrest, Ashish, popular as Monu Bhaiyya in Banveerpur — Union minister Ajay Mishra’s village, most villagers vouch for his innocence. According to a villager, Banveerpur fears the Mishra family. “No one will say anything against Ashish or anyone from his family even after he killed four people. Such is their stature in the village,” alleges the 37-year-old farmer. Read our profile on the Mishras, here UP Law Minister Brijesh Pathak Wednesday became the first senior BJP leader to visit Lakhimpur Kheri, 10 days after the violence in the area. But the Minister left after visiting the families of two of those killed: BJP worker Shubham Mishra and MoS Ajay Mishra’s driver Hari Om Mishra. He did not meet the families of four others from the area who lost their lives. When contacted by The Indian Express, Pathak said: “I will visit their families of Nishad and Kashyap as soon as the situation normalises in that region as they live close to the spot where the incident took place.” The SIT probing the Lakhimpur Kheri violence on Thursday took Union Minister Ajay Mishra's son and three others arrested in the case to recreate the sequence of events leading to the incident in Uttar Pradesh's Tikonia village. Amid tight security, the three accused were taken to the site of the incident on the Tikonia-Banbirpur road, around 60 km from district headquarters Lakhimpur city, police said.Eight people died in the October 3 violence and of them, four were farmers, allegedly knocked down by a vehicle carrying BJP workers. Infuriated farmers then allegedly lynched some people in the vehicles. The other dead included two BJP workers and their driver. In the incident, a journalist was also killed.Farmers claimed that Union Minister Ajay Mishra's son Ashish Mishra was in one of the vehicles, an allegation denied by him and his father who say they can produce evidence to prove he was at an event at that time. (PTI)#WATCH Special Investigation Team (SIT) in Lakhimpur Kheri to recreate the crime scene pic.twitter.com/T6ffwrN2z4— ANI UP (@ANINewsUP) October 14, 2021 BJP MP Varun Gandhi on Thursday posted on Twitter a short clip of a speech of former prime minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee from 1980 in which he warns the then Indira Gandhi government against repressing farmers and extends his support to them.  Gandhi tweeted, "Wise words from a big-hearted leader..." The BJP MP has been vocal in empathising with farmers agitating against the three agri laws enacted by the Modi government and sharing Vajpayee's speech is seen as his message to the central government.  In the video clip, Vajpayee is heard telling a gathering that farmers cannot be scared. "If the government will suppress (farmers), misuse laws and repress a peaceful agitation, then we will not shy away from joining the farmers' struggle and standing with them," he is heard saying. Wise words from a big-hearted leader… pic.twitter.com/xlRtznjFAx At Banveerpur, Union minister Ajay Mishra’s village, most are willing to testify that his son Ashish Mishra was present at the venue of a wrestling event on October 3 when a convoy of vehicles, including one owned by his father, mowed down a group of farmers, killing four of them and a journalist. Despite his arrest, Ashish, popular as Monu Bhaiyya, most villagers vouch for his innocence. For them, among his three siblings, Ashish, the eldest, remains Ajay Mishra’s political and business heir. “After Teniji [Ajay Mishra] became the MP from Lakhimpur Kheri seat, it was Monu Bhaiyya who took over his reign in the district. People who would come to meet Teniji to resolve their issues started meeting Monu Bhaiyya,” says Akash Mittal, the 32-year-old pradhan of Banveerpur. Read more On Lakhimpur Kheri violence, NCP chief Sharad Pawar targeted Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath for inaction. “UP CM Yogi Adityanath has abdicated his responsibility… by not taking action against those involved. He along with the Union Minister of State for Home need to resign,” Pawar said. Ashish Mishra, the son of Union Minister of State for Home Ajay Mishra Teni, is the main accused in the death of four farmers in the case. Various civil society groups on Wednesday protested outside the Delhi Police headquarters here against the alleged sexual assault of two women students by police personnel during a recent protest, prompting the force to set up a panel to probe the claims. The Left-affiliated All India Students' Association (AISA) had on Tuesday alleged that two women students were sexually assaulted by Delhi Police personnel while they were protesting outside Union Home Minister Amit Shah's residence here on October 10. The allegations were rejected by the police as "totally baseless." Lashing out at the BJP, Samajwadi Party (SP)president Akhilesh Yadav on Wednesday said the saffron party would never act against the Union minister whose son has been arrested in connection with the Lakhimpur killings as it "stands with criminals", who are the happiest under the current regime.  In an indirect reference to Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath, he used the term "chillumjeevi". "Chillum" is a smoking pipe often used by "sadhus". On his "Vijay Rath Yatra" here, Yadav said Adityanath has a liking for two things -- the bull and the bulldozer -- but the people of Bundelkhand have decided that the steering of the bulldozer, which is in their hands, will be snatched from him in next year's Assembly election. "They will run the bulldozer of votes on the BJP in the coming polls," he said. (PTI) The Centre is using the stringent Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act to "suppress" the voices of people who speak against the government, Rashtriya Lok Dal (RLD) president Jayant Chaudhary alleged on Wednesday. He also hit out at the Centre for not taking action against Union Minister of State for Home Affairs Ajay Mishra 'Teni', whose son has been arrested as an accused in the Lakhimpur Kheri violence that left eight people, including four farmers, dead. "The prime minister (Narendra Modi) should have got the Union MoS Home arrested but he was not arrested and instead called to Delhi where the Union Home Minister (Amit Shah) made him sit by his side and sent him back with his blessings to continue his work which is to crush the farmers, suppress the voices being raised against them," he told the gatherings, according to an RLD statement. "There is a law, UAPA, which is used for the prevention of terrorist incidents. Today the same law is used by the government to stop the voices being raised against it. Since Modi ji has come to power, 8,300 cases have been registered under UAPA. This law is being used against those who speak against the government," he alleged. Two more persons were on Wednesday arrested in connection with the Lakhimpur violence, while a court here denied bail to the main accused, Ashish Mishra, son of Union minister Ajay Mishra. Ankit Das and Latif alias Kale, who appeared before the Special Investigation Team (SIT), were taken in custody after questioning and produced in court which sent them in judicial remand for 14 days, official sources said. With this, the total number of people arrested in connection with the mowing down of four farmers here on October 3 has gone to six. Read More  In a letter addressed to President Ram Nath Kovind, the delegation of Congress leaders demanded justice for the victims of violence in Lakhimpur Kheri. They also called for an independent judicial investigation and the dismissal of MoS Home Affairs, Ajay Mishra. Read the full letter.  Letter to President of India, Shri Ram Nath Kovind ji by the Congress delegation led by Shri @RahulGandhi, demanding justice for Lakhimpur Kheri farmers, the need for an independent judicial investigation & the dismissal of MoS Home Affairs, Ajay Mishra. pic.twitter.com/z5pSOqnJ1l 

 A delegation of Congress leaders, led by former party president Rahul Gandhi, on Wednesday met President Ram Nath Kovind demanding the immediate dismissal of Minister of State for Home Ajay Kumar Mishra over the Lakhimpur Kheri violence. The delegation of senior Congress leaders also presented a memorandum of facts about the Lakhimpur Kheri incident to the President. The delegation also comprised Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, AK Antony, Mallikarjun Kharge, KC Venugopal, Ghulam Nabi Azad, and Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury besides Rahul Gandhi. (PTI) The Lakhimpur Kheri violence, in which four farmers were killed, is "absolutely condemnable," Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman has said, emphasising that there are issues of such nature happening in other parts of India equally which should be raised "when they happen and not when it suits others" because there is a BJP government in Uttar Pradesh. Sitharaman, who is on an official visit to the US, was responding to a question during a conversation at Harvard Kennedy School on Tuesday about the killing of four farmers in Lakhimpur Kheri and the arrest of Ashish Mishra, son of Union Minister of State for Home Ajay Mishra. (PTI) The left-affiliated All India Students' Association (AISA) Tuesday alleged two women students were sexually assaulted by Delhi police personnel while they were part of a protest on Sunday near Home Minister Amit Shah's residence, demanding the expulsion of MoS Ajay Mishra over the October 3 Lakhimpur Kheri violence. The allegations were rejected as "totally baseless" by the force. The AISA has called for a protest on Wednesday outside the Delhi Police Headquarters at Ashoka Road here against the alleged assault. (PTI) A delegation of Congress leaders, led by Rahul Gandhi, is set to meet President Ram Nath Kovind today to address the violence that broke out in Lakhimpur Kheri, in which eight people were killed. The delegation will submit a memorandum on the facts of the October 3 violence to the President, the party said. The delegation will also comprise Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, AK Antony, Mallikarjun Kharge, KC Venugopal, Ghulam Nabi Azad, and Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury besides Rahul Gandhi. The Special Investigation Team (SIT) probing the killing of eight people in Lakhimpur Kheri on Tuesday arrested the driver of one of the SUVs that was part of the convoy which ran over a group of protesting farmers on October 3, the police said. While four protesters and allegedly a journalist were run over, three others were killed in the subsequent violence. The accused, Shekhar Bharti, was behind the wheel of one of three vehicles involved in the incident, police said. They said it was owned by Ankit Das, a close aide of Ashish Mishra, Union minister Ajay Mishra’s son, and nephew of former Rajya Sabha MP and UPA minister Akhilesh Das, police said. Read the full report here.  The "political ardas" organised by the opposition parties in Lakhimpur Kheri in the name of paying tributes to the farmers who died in violence there was a "flop show", a UP government spokesperson said on Tuesday. The state government spokesperson further said people of Lakhimpur have "shown the mirror" to the opposition, which was out on a campaign to "divide society for vote bank". "Not only in Lakhimpur, people of the entire state are satisfied with quick decisions of the Yogi Adityanath government on the Lakhimpur incident," he claimed. "This was proved by the fact that the leaders of the opposition parties, who claimed to have gathered a crowd of 50,000, could not mobilise even 1,000 people," he said."Not only this, the opposition unity on the vote bank politics on farmers collapsed when Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, who shed crocodile tears, was not even given a chance to speak from the stage," the spokesperson said. (PTI) Farmers' supporters and activists held a protest with candles and placards against the Lakhimpur Kheri incident in Bengaluru on Tuesday. Candle marches were held all over Punjab to pay tribute to the victims of the violence in UP's Lakhimpur Kheri. #CandleMarch in Mehal Kalan, district #Barnala in order to pay tributes to #LakhimpurKheri victims. In #Punjab candle marches were taken out at hundreds of places. Video credit: #SanyuktKisanMorcha @IndianExpress @iepunjab pic.twitter.com/kWAfyCOn0Z Punjab Deputy CM Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa, who was in Jalandhar to pay obeisance at Gurdwara Rampur Khera Sahib, spoke about justice for Lakhimpur Kheri victims. He demanded immediate removal of Union minister Ajay Mishra from Cabinet for fair probe.Randhawa added that Mishra should tender an apology for his irresponsible statement in which he allegedly threatened farmers. He said that said atrocities being inflicted upon farmers nowadays will not be tolerated at any cost. Rajasthan CM Ashok Gehlot on Tuesday targeted BJP leaders for comparing a Dalit man's killing in the state's Hanumangarh with the Lakhimpur Kheri violence, saying they are "foolish" and lack "sense" on how to react to an incident.On October 7, a man was beaten to death in Prempura town of Hanumangarh over his alleged love affair. Police have so far arrested seven people. Gehlot said he himself condemns such incidents and took prompt action, after which the accused were apprehended.When asked that Union Minister of State for Home Ajay Mishra has not been sacked after the Lakhimpur Kheri violence, Gehlot said that's why the Congress is agitating continuously. "People were killed in broad daylight. We saw people die in riots. We heard that people are killed in police encounters but we haven't seen such deaths. Is the Centre, prime minister or the chief minister not aware about it?" Gehlot asked. (PTI)  Ashish Mishra at the Crime Branch office in Lakhimpur on Saturday. (Express Photo by Vishal Srivastava) On October 3, a convoy of three vehicles drove through a crowd of protesting farmers in Tikonia, Lakhimpur Kheri district of Uttar Pradesh. One of the cars belonged to Union Minister Ajay Mishra, and his son, Ashish, is alleged to have been behind the wheel. Four farmers were killed in the incident, while four others, including the Minister's driver, two BJP workers and a journalist, died in subsequent protests. While Ajay Mishra has maintained his son was not present at the site of the accident, Ashish was arrested last Saturday and has been in police custody. The police has said he was "evasive" during questioning, and sought a 14-day remand. The BJP has rallied behind the Union Minister, while the Opposition has targetted the government for the violence against farmers. The Special Investigation Team (SIT) probing the killing of eight people in Lakhimpur Kheri on Tuesday arrested the driver of one of the SUVs that was part of the convoy which ran over a group of protesting farmers on October 3, the police said. While four protesters and allegedly a journalist were run over, three others were killed in the subsequent violence. The accused, Shekhar Bharti, was behind the wheel of one of three vehicles involved in the incident, police said. They said it was owned by Ankit Das, a close aide of Ashish Mishra, Union minister Ajay Mishra’s son, and nephew of former Rajya Sabha MP and UPA minister Akhilesh Das, police said.