On UP Minister's Petrol Remark, Akhilesh Yadav's 'Lakhimpur Kheri' Dig
Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav slammed BJP over UP minister's comment on diesel costs. (File)Lucknow: Taking a potshot at Uttar Pradesh minister Upendra Tiwari over his remark that 95 per cent of people do not need petrol and diesel, Samajwadi Party president Akhilesh Yadav today said the truth is that those people do not need the BJP.Mr Tiwari had on Thursday said that prices of petrol and diesel were not increased much considering per capita income and added that 95 per cent of people do not need them."The BJP minister of Uttar Pradesh said that expensive petrol does not bother the general public because 95 per cent of the people do not need petrol. Now, even the minister will not need it as the people will make him ''paidal'' (out of power). The truth is that 95 per cent of the people do not need the BJP," Mr Yadav said in a tweet in Hindi.उप्र के भाजपाई मंत्री जी ने कहा कि महँगे पेट्रोल से आम जनता को फ़र्क़ नहीं पड़ता क्योंकि 95% जनता को पेट्रोल की ज़रूरत नहीं है। अब मंत्री जी को भी नहीं पड़ेगी क्योंकि जनता उनको पैदल कर देगी। सच्चाई तो ये है कि 95% जनता को भाजपा की ज़रूरत नहीं है।‘थार' में तो डीज़ल पड़ता है ना?— Akhilesh Yadav (@yadavakhilesh) October 22, 2021The Samajwadi Party president also asked, "Does Thar need diesel?", referring to the recent Lakhimpur Kheri incident where four farmers were allegedly mowed down by a jeep (Mahindra Thar) driven by BJP workers.While talking to reporters in Jalaun when asked about rising prices of petrol and diesel, Mr Tiwari had said, "Today, there are just a handful of people who travel in four-wheel vehicles and use petrol. At present, 95 per cent people don't need petrol."PromotedListen to the latest songs, only on JioSaavn.com"If you compare with per capita income, the prices of petrol and diesel have not increased much. Today, the opposition parties have no issues with them. You see data before 2014. What is the per capita income after the formation of the Modi and the Adityanath governments? Today, per capita income has doubled," he had said. (Except for the headline, this story has not been edited by NDTV staff and is published from a syndicated feed.)