"Our Soldiers Have Died. Will You Play T20?" Asaduddin Owaisi Slams PM
Asaduddin Owaisi said that PM Modi never speaks on the issue of hike in fuel prices.Highlights"Our soldiers have died. Will you play T20?" Asaduddin Owaisi saidPM never speaks on issue of hike in fuel prices and China, said OwaisiSeveral civilians have been killed by terrorists in Jammu and KashmirHyderabad (Telangana): All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen (AIMIM) chief Asaduddin Owaisi on Monday said that Prime Minister Narendra Modi never speaks on the issue of hike in fuel prices and that of China "sitting in Ladakh".Addressing a gathering, Asaduddin Owaisi said, "PM Modi never speaks on two things -- rise in petrol and diesel prices and China sitting inside our territory in Ladakh.""PM is afraid of speaking on China," he alleged.Petrol and diesel prices reached an all-time high as fuel rates continued to rise by 35 paise/litre across the country for the fourth consecutive day on Sunday. With the latest hike, the petrol price becomes Rs 105.84/litre while diesel will now cost Rs 94.57/litre in Delhi."Prime Minister Modi never speaks on 2 things - rise in fuel prices and #China sitting in our territory in Ladakh. PM Modi is afraid of speaking on China. 9 Indian soldiers died (in J&K) and on October 24 India-Pakistan T20 match will happen": AIMIM Chief Asaduddin Owaisi(ANI) pic.twitter.com/a4H7xK5FY4— NDTV (@ndtv) October 19, 2021Further, commenting on Army personnel who were killed during different operations against terrorists in Jammu and Kashmir, Asaduddin Owaisi said, "Nine of our soldiers died in J-K, and India will be playing T20 match with Pakistan on October 24?""Our soldiers have died. Will you play T20? Pakistan is playing 20-20 in Kashmir every day with the lives of the people of India," he added.Asaduddin Owaisi, while talking about the series of targeted civilian killings in Kashmir, said that is it a failure of the BJP-led Centre. "Poor workers of Bihar are being killed, targeted killing is being done, what is the Intelligence Bureau and (Union Home Minister) Amit Shah doing? This is a failure of the Centre," he said.PromotedListen to the latest songs, only on JioSaavn.comA street hawker from Bihar and a labourer from Uttar Pradesh were killed in two back-to-back attacks by terrorists in the Srinagar and Pulwama districts of Jammu and Kashmir on Saturday.Over the past few days, several civilians have been killed by terrorists in Jammu and Kashmir, sparking fear in the Valley. (ANI)